# Kasia Lor
### Essay
Thoughts on
“An Industry Guide to Becoming a Software Engineer “

At the beginning of this article, and even midway through, I was really unsure if after going through college, I would “qualify” to even list any of the skills needed onto my resume. I am new to networking, programming, and basically a large chunk of anything IT related other than what your basic consumer knows about a computer. To be quite honest, a majority of these skills flew over my head besides the few programming languages mentioned, the section for algorithms, and the basic interview skills. I think one of my strengths is being able to develop solutions that work. I have never had to develop algorithms to solve problems at work so my biggest concern would be how effectively I can rewire my current thought process for problems solving into creating solutions through an engineer’s perspective. I believe that business-wise, I can meet qualifications, but my technical skills are what would set me behind.

One section that stood out to me was collaboration. Although it is sometimes assigned for us to collaborate with our peers, we are not always willing to. I think that just comes with the character of the types of people who choose to enter the IT field. Many of us are introverts and find it hard to collaborate. I think the article made a good point on how reaching out to our peers for help is probably the best thing we can do for ourselves in the professional realm—that even in the corporate world, it is okay to seek help and to not waste more time lingering on answering problems that can be solved quickly by our peers.  

Another section of the presentation that stood out to me was slide twenty one—the light at the end of the tunnel. After reading through the necessary skills to become a Software Engineer, I clearly didn’t think I would have the expert skills needed to qualify for the role. But after seeing slide twenty one, I am more reassured that it takes a large amount of time and dedication even after graduation to build up your skills. Slide twenty six also talks about how you may not know what you want to do now in your career, but that it’s okay to be undecided. Just take the steps in your career path at a steady comfortable speed and change when you have mastered your role. I think this strategy helps an individual really learn their foundation. By mastering the lower levels on up, it will make the top jobs easier with understanding and solving problems. 

After reading this article, I know what I need to work on if I wanted to open up my opportunities by diving into the software engineering world. I think the article gave very valuable information on how you can make yourself a worthy candidate for hire by beefing your resume with internships and by listing projects and collaborations like github. I also liked how the the article talked about interview skills and what a company looks for in software engineers. I found this to be very helpful and yet repetitive of what you are constantly pushing for in class—collaboration, online showcasing of your work and projects, and practice makes perfect (scripts). 
